# Publications
For an up-to-date publication list, see my [Google Scholar](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=fNPFNhsAAAAJ) profile.

## Preprints/submitted
- **Sitek, K.R.**, Roark, C.L., Helou, L.B., Chandrasekaran, B. (in revision) “Distinct 7T functional MRI response patterns to stimulus, response, and feedback across dorsal striatum during auditory learning.”
- Llanos, F.\*, **Sitek, K. R.**\*, Feng, G., Chandrasekaran, B. Dimensional coding of native and non-native speech categories. (*submitted*)
- **Sitek, K.R.**, Helou, L.B., Chandrasekaran, B. [Auditory corticostriatal connections in the human brain](https://doi.org/10.1101/2022.08.04.502679). _bioRxiv_ (2022 preprint).
- Fan, J., **Sitek, K.R.**, Chandrasekaran, B., Sarkar, A. [Bayesian Tensor Factorized Mixed Effects Vector Autoregressive Processes for Inferring Granger Causality Patterns from High-Dimensional Neuroimage Data](https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2206.10757). _arXiv_ (2022 preprint).


## Peer-reviewed publications
- Medina, M.C., Reddy, N.H., **Sitek, K.R.**, Bright, M.G. (2026). [Mapping Whole-Brain Auditory Activation with 3T Multi-Echo fMRI at the Group and Individual-Subject Level](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heares.2026.109622). Hearing Research. 
- **Sitek, K.R.**, Wearn, A., DuPre, E.M. [Communication is the foundation of an impactful and resilient scientific community](https://doi.org/10.52294/001c.143510). *Aperture Neuro* 2025;5(SI 3). doi:10.52294/​001c.143510.
- Wearn A, **Sitek KR**, Valk SL, Forkel SJ. [The Organization for Human Brain Mapping Time Machine: A freely accessible archive of Annual Meeting talks on YouTube](https://doi.org/10.52294/001c.138647). *Aperture Neuro*. 2025;5(SI 2). doi:10.52294/​001c.138647
- Chandra, N.K.\*, **Sitek, K.R.**\*, Sarkar, A., Chandrasekaran, B. [Functional connectivity across the human subcortical auditory system using an autoregressive matrix-Gaussian copula graphical model approach with partial correlations](https://doi.org/10.1162/imag_a_00258). _Imaging Neuroscience_ (2024). (\*: equal contributions)
- Ara, A., Provias, V., **Sitek, K.R.**, Coffey, E., Zatorre, R. [Cortical-subcortical interactions to violations of auditory predictions measured with 7T functional MRI.](https://doi.org/10.1093/cercor/bhae316) *Cerebral Cortex* (2024).
- Gnanateja, G.N., Devaraju, D.S., Heyne, M., Quique, Y.M., **Sitek, K.R.**, Tardif, M.C., Tessmer, R., Dial, H.R. [On the role of neural oscillations across timescales in speech and music processing](https://doi.org/10.3389/fncom.2022.872093). _Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience_ (2022).
- **Sitek, K.R.**, Calabrese, E., Johnson, G.A., Ghosh, S.S., Chandrasekaran, B. [Structural connectivity of human inferior colliculus subdivisions using in vivo and post mortem diffusion MRI tractography](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnins.2022.751595/full). _Frontiers in Neuroscience_ (2022).
- P Truong, JH Kim, R Savjani, **KR Sitek**, G Hagberg, K Scheffler, D Ress. [Depth relationships and measures of tissue thickness in dorsal midbrain](https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.25185). _Human Brain Mapping_ (2020).
- **Sitek KR**\*, Gulban OF\*, Calabrese E, Johnson GA, Lage-Castellanos A, Moerel M, Ghosh SS†, De Martino F†. [Mapping the human subcortical auditory system using histology, postmortem MRI and in vivo MRI at 7T](https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.48932). _eLife_ (2019).(\*: equal contributions; †: equal contributions)
- Boets B, Van Eylen L, **Sitek K**, Moors P, Noens I, Steyaert J, Sunaert S, Wagemans J. [Alterations in the inferior longitudinal fasciculus in autism and associations with visual processing: a diffusion-weighted MRI study](https://doi.org/10.1186/s13229-018-0188-6). _Molecular autism_ (2018).
- Tarabichi O, Kozin ED, Kanumuri VV, Barber S, Ghosh S, **Sitek KR**, Reinshagen K, Herrmann B, Remenschneider AK, Lee DJ. [Diffusion tensor imaging of central auditory pathways in patients with sensorineural hearing loss: a systematic review](https://doi.org/10.1177/0194599817739838). _Otolaryngology–Head and Neck Surgery_ (2018).
- **Sitek KR**, Cai S, Beal DS, Perkell JS, Guenther FH, Ghosh SS. [Decreased cerebellar-orbitofrontal connectivity correlates with stuttering severity: whole-brain functional and structural connectivity associations with persistent developmental stuttering](https://doi.org/10.3389/fnhum.2016.00190). _Frontiers in Human Neuroscience_ (2016).
- **Sitek KR**, Mathalon DH, Roach BJ, Houde JF, Niziolek CA, Ford JM. [Auditory cortex processes variation in our own speech](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0082925). _PloS one_ (2013).

## Conference proceedings and abstracts
- **Sitek, K.R.**, Butler, G., Kangsumrith, A. McFarlane, K. Chandrasekaran, B. “Using electroencephalography to investigate the neural mechanisms responsible for processing self versus externally generated sounds.” Poster presented at the 2025 Society for the Neurobiology of Language Annual Meeting, September 2025.
- **Sitek, K.R.**, Bohland, J., Parker, A., Chandrasekaran, B., Hampton Wray, A. “Speech-in-noise representations in the developing human brain.” Poster accepted for presentation at the 2025 Society for the Neurobiology of Language Annual Meeting, September 2025.
- Vaishak Harish, **Kevin Sitek**, Akshat Dhamale, Tamer Ibrahim, Jason Bohland. “Investigation of speech-induced sensory modulation using multimodal neuroimaging.” Poster accepted for presentation at the 2025 Society for the Neurobiology of Language Annual Meeting, September 2025.
- Ja Young Choi, **Kevin Sitek**, Louis-Phillipe Langlois, Stephanie Deschamps, Jen-Kai Chen, Casey Roark, Shari Baum, Bharath Chandrasekaran, Denise Klein, “Behavioral identification and neural representations of talkers' voices vary with lifelong language experience.”  Poster accepted for presentation at the 2025 Society for the Neurobiology of Language Annual Meeting, September 2025.
- Deschamps, S. R., Chen, J.-K., **Sitek, K. R.**, Roark, C. L., Chandrasekaran, B., Baum, S., Klein, D. “Effects of Early Language Exposure on Feedback Processing: Speech Category Learning in International Adoptees.” Poster accepted for  presentation at the 2025 Annual Meeting of the Canadian Society for Brain, Behaviour and Cognitive Science (CSBBCS), Dundee, Scotland, July 2025.
- **Kevin R. Sitek**, Vaishak Harish, Jason Bohland. “Modulation of auditory cortex in a sound-generating button press task measured with 7T fMRI.” Poster presentation at the Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping, Brisbane, Australia, June 2025. [unable to attend; poster presented by Dr. Bohland]
- Marshall Xu, **Kevin R. Sitek**, Omer Faruk Gulban, Saskia Bollmann. “Characterization of Human Midbrain Vasculature from High-Resolution Post-Mortem MRI Data.” Poster presentation at the Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping, Brisbane, Australia, June 2025.
- Peer Herholz, **Kevin R. Sitek**. “CAFENAP - a Python toolbox for the Collection/Application of & Feature Extraction from DNNs.” Accepted for presentation at the Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping, Brisbane, Australia, June 2025.
- Alfie Wearn, **Kevin R. Sitek**, Sofie L. Valk, Stephanie J. Forkel. “The OHBM Time Machine: A freely accessible archive of annual meeting talks on YouTube.” Poster presentation at the Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping, Brisbane, Australia, June 2025.
- Michelle C. Medina, Neha A. Reddy, **Kevin R. Sitek**, Molly G. Bright. “Comparison of multi-echo denoising techniques for auditory brainstem fMRI in the presence of task-correlated motion.” Poster presentation at the Annual Meeting of the International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, Honolulu, HI, 10–15 May 2025.
- Chandra, N.K.\*, **Sitek, K.R.\***, Chandrasekaran, B. Sarkar, A. “Functional connectivity across the human subcortical auditory system using an autoregressive matrix-Gaussian copula graphical model approach with partial correlations.” Poster presented at the Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience, Chicago, IL, 05 October 2024. [Also presented at Advances and Perspectives in Auditory Neuroscience, Chicago, IL, 04 October 2024.] (*equal contributions)
- **Kevin R. Sitek**, Marshall Xu, Saskia Bollman, O. Faruk Gulban. “Segmentation and quantification of mesoscopic subcortical vessels using post mortem MRI at 50 micron.” Poster presented at the Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping, Seoul, Korea, June 2024.
- **Kevin R. Sitek**, Marshall Xu, Saskia Bollman, O. Faruk Gulban. “Mapping vasculature in human midbrain with MRI.” Poster presented at the MidWinter Meeting of the Association for Research in Otolaryngology, Anaheim, CA, February 2024.
- Ara, A., Provias, V., Metz, A., **Sitek, K.R.**, Coffey, E.B.J., Zatorre, R.J. “Different cortical and subcortical responses to violations of top-down and bottom-up auditory predictions measured with 7T functional MRI.” Poster accepted for the Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping, Montréal, July 2023.
- **K. R. Sitek**, B. Chandrasekaran. “Mapping the connectivity of auditory cortex with diffusion MRI tractography.” Poster presented at the 2023 Meeting of the American Auditory Society, Scottsdale, AZ, March 2023.
- Llanos, F., Feng, G., Sitek, K. R., Chandrasekaran, B. “Higher-Dimensional Neural Representations Predict Better Speech Category Learning and Native Language Experience.” Poster presented at the 2023 ARO MidWinter Meeting, February 11, 2023.
- Gnanateja GN, **Sitek KR**, Parida S, Sadagopan S, Chandrasekaran B. Stimulus Feature Decoding using Frequency Following Responses. Poster presented at the Association for Research in Otolaryngology MidWinter Meeting (2023).
- **Sitek KR** & Gulban OF. Vasculature mapping in human superior and inferior colliculus. In _28th Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping_ (2022).
-  Gnanateja, G. N.\*, **Sitek, K. R.\***, Llanos, F., and Chandrasekaran, B. (2022). Cross-Modal Approach to Studying FFRs in a Representational Similarity Analysis Framework. Poster presented at the FFR Workshop, Barcelona, Spain, June 6–8, 2022.
- **Sitek K**, Asma Q, Molla F, Hagberg G, Kim JH, Scheffler K, Himmelbach M, Ress D. [Somatovisual processing in the deep layers of the human superior colliculus](https://ww4.aievolution.com/hbm2001/index.cfm?do=abs.viewAbs&abs=3074). In _26th Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping_ (2020).
- **Sitek K**, Ghosh S. [Mapping the human subcortical auditory system with 3T quantitative MRI](https://ww4.aievolution.com/hbm2001/index.cfm?do=abs.viewAbs&subView=1&abs=3154). In _26th Annual Meeting of the Organization for Human Brain Mapping_ (2020).
- **Sitek K**, Ciccarelli G, Goncalves M, Quatieri T, Ghosh S. [Depression alters limbic-sensorimotor brain interactions during implicit emotional speech production](https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.5554846.v1). Poster presented at the meeting of the Society for the Neurobiology of Language (2017).
- **Sitek K**, Johnson K. [Ipsilateral and contralateral phonetic context effects](https://scholar.harvard.edu/files/sitek/files/ksitek_phoneticcontexteffects.pdf) [PDF]. In _Proceedings from the Annual Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society_ (2012).

## Dissertation
- **Sitek KR**. [Mapping the Human Subcortical Auditory System With MRI](https://dash.harvard.edu/handle/1/42013097). Doctoral dissertation, Harvard University, Graduate School of Arts & Sciences (2019).
